All right.
Our very first gift along with GitHub demo.
Let's start by creating a new folder where we will do all the work.
To do that, I'll run make directory command and I'll create this folder named Hello from Git.
Then I will seed into it.
If I open this folder in Windows Explorer or in Mac, this folder is empty.
There's nothing special about it.
It is not being tracked by git to enable git tracking, auditing, all that good stuff.
Our version control system.
We have to run this git init command inside this folder.
It gives us this message initialized empty git repository and the name of the folder and you can also
see a hidden folder named Dot Git appeared inside our folder.
From now on, whatever we do inside this folder can be tracked by Git.
It is not needed to know what goes on inside this hidden dot git folder because that is implementation
details and subject to change after you run this git init command staging area and local repository
are created and they are currently both empty.
Now let's create our very first file in this folder.
To do that, we will run code file one.
This creates this file and opens up the file in the editor.
We'll just type in hello world from Git press control se to save the file and if we come back to command
line and type git status it shows no commits yet and untracked file.
So at this point everything is in the workspace.
To add this file to the index or staging area, we have to run our git add command so we'll run git
add and the name of the file.
And now if we run git status again it says no commits yet and it says changes to be committed.
New file file one another command that you will run frequently along with git status is git log git
log displays all the previous commits along with the date timestamp, etc. Commit is the most important
part of git.
All the git tracking, auditing and all the details of who changed the code.
Everything gets started after you commit your file.
So let's run the commit command so we will run git commit file 1-m our very first commit press enter
and it says one file changed now let's run git log again.
Aha.
Now it displays a unique commit ID number for this commit along with who did the commit as well as the
email address.
It also displays the timestamp with the comment.
If you recall, this name and email address were set as part of the global configuration setting that
we did in the last lecture.
At this point, file one is in the local repository.
Now let's complete the flow and push this to our GitHub repository.
I'm in my GitHub profile page to create a repository.
Go to this repository tab and then click new.
I'll give the name Hello from Git, I'll keep everything as is scroll down click create repository and
you will notice GitHub also displays the commands that's required to push your changes.
This is super handy.
We already did up to this part.
We run getting it git add and git commit to push our changes to GitHub.
We need to run this three remaining commands.
Don't worry too much about this git branch dash am and git remote add command.
They are part of branching.
We are going to learn about branching in couple lectures.
For now I'm just going to copy this.
Three commands, go back to our Visual Studio code and pass those and press enter.
If you are doing this for the first time, you might be asked to provide your GitHub username and password.
So enter those when prompted.
Let's press enter.
All right.
Seems like our changes have been pushed to our GitHub repository.
Let's go check it out.
I'm going to reload this page.
Here we go.
You can see the file one is in our GitHub repository along with the commit comment.
If you want to see the details, you can click this commit link and then click this blue ID number and
it is going to show what change, what file is added, etc. Also note that when you run get push along
with the file, the same commit ID from the local desktop gets pushed to the remote GitHub repository.
All right, first demo in our books.
Now let's do some further changes and see how you see the differences and add more files to get.
All right.
Let's jump into the next demo.